-: Welcome back.
So in this lecture,
we are going to understand about Kubernetes namespaces
on a very high level.
So name spaces are also called virtual clusters
in our physical Kubernetes cluster.
Why?
Because we create a Kubernetes objects
inside these namespaces which will be isolated
from other objects outside of this namespace.
So that's the reason we call it as a virtual cluster.
So usually these name spaces are used in environments
where we have many users spread
across multiple teams or projects.
So we have many projects and then many teams
which are accessing all these projects
deployed on the Kubernetes cluster.
And if you want the complete isolation boundaries defined
for these each teams of the end environments,
then we can use the namespaces.
For simple clusters with the minimum number of users
or minimum number of applications,
which we really don't feel as complex,
we can directly don't need to use namespaces.
But personally what I recommend
is this is what document recommends,
but personally what I recommend based on my experiences,
start using namespaces.
If respect you have if you use the resource quota
and then other advanced options,
at least if you start using the namespaces
and then pushing your objects
to that respective isolated boundary,
excluding the resource quota concepts,
so what happens here is like
you'll get a lot of advantages
when you are doing,
when you are getting to experience those things,
you'll understand better.
But my personal recommendation
is start using namespaces
even in these tens of users of in this area
also start using namespaces.
It's no harm in having your objects
dedicated in a namespace
instead of having them in a default namespace.
I respect you if you don't use this namespace concept also,
whatever you are creating
is going to go into it a default namespace.
So if that is the case, what is wrong in using namespaces?
So, that's my recommendation.
So, moving on.
So, what are the benefits we are going to get?
So, when we create these namespaces
it creates the isolation boundary
from other created objects,
further objects whatever we have created
inside that namespace.
So we are going to see all those things in our next slide.
We can also limit the resources like CPU and memory
on per namespace basis
using the resource quota option available in Kubernetes.
So you can create a namespace
and provide that resource quota
like it need to use only two CPU codes
and then 4GB of memory, so you can do that.
So that's the reason
you can even call it as a virtual cluster.
So, now moving on.
So how to get the namespaces?
So you can say kubectl, get namespace
and then you'll get the by default
to whatever has created as part of the cluster creation.
So Kubernetes cluster creation,
all those default namespaces will be available.
So let's start with what is this default namespace.
So let's understand this default namespace is nothing.
But so far whatever we have done
in our continuous previous lectures,
whatever we have done so far, whatever we deployed,
all objects were deployed under this default namespace.
Our user management application,
or our Nginx application, whatever we have done
all those are getting under this default namespace.
That's the reason, whatever I say
is like whatever we create anywhere
going into one default namespace.
Instead of that, if you want to clearly
and then clarity manage your objects in Kubernetes,
start trying to use namespaces.
And next thing is kube node release, okay?
So this namespace is for the lease objects
associated with each node,
which improves performance of our node heartbeats
as the cluster keeps scaling.
Okay?
So using the auto scaling when the cluster is scaling.
So this, using this kube node release,
we are going to have the better performance of our cluster.
Okay?
But the core thing is we really don't need
to worry about that or we really need to
or look into that one.
So, one more will be there, which is kube public.
So this namespace is created automatically
and is readable by all users, even the unauthenticated users
of my Kubernetes cluster.
So this name space is mostly reserved for cluster usage
in case that some resources should be visible
and readable publicly throughout the whole cluster.
So kube node release and kube public,
we really don't need to worry about these things, okay?
So one thing which is default,
where we create by default
whenever no namespace is mentioned
it is going to go into default.
And another thing which we have is kube system.
So this is what we should be aware of.
So all the Kubernetes system-related objects
will be created in the kube system.
So let's go ahead and then see that now.
So, let's see what I'll present
in our kube system namespace, okay?
So I'll say kubectl, okay?
So get all objects and then hyphen, hypen,
namespace kube-system, right?
So it'll provide all the objects
present in our system, okay?
So you can see it here.
So, the following parts are present
and then you also have a service named kube DNS,
which is a cluster IP.
And you also haves AWS node two parts
and then code DNS two parts
and then EBS CSI controller,
which is elastic block toward CSA controller two ports.
And the CSI node which is a DaemonSet
running on each of our cluster nodes.
Two cluster easy two instances we have.
And on them they're running.
And we also have kube proxy.
So you can sees AWS node is a DaemonSet
and EBS CSI note is a DaemonSet
and Kube proxy's a DaemonSet here, okay?
And in addition to that you have core DNS
and then EBS CSI controller deployment created
and you also equal and replicate cells
also you can see here.
So kube system is nothing but all the system objects
are running here inside the kube system namespace.
So let's understand little bit, okay?
So kubectl, get namespaces, you can say NS.
NS is the alias for name spaces here, okay?
And in addition to that,
one thing we have done just now is kubectl,
get all, right?
So and then hyphen, hyphen namespace we have given.
You can even view hyphen N and then kube system
and the output should be same, right?
So, get to all objects from the kube system using hyphen N.
So that's about it, okay?
so now let's come back
and we'll move on to the next slide.
So here what we are going to understand
is a pictorial representation of our namespaces.
So if you see I have a simple application
with a simple backend application.
So maybe my REST service application
which we have seen in in our previous examples
and then which is front-end with the Nginx proxy, right?
So now whatever my backend application,
whatever I do the deployment,
when it creates a replica and it's equivalent port.
At the same time, to access that inside the cluster
we create a cluster IP service.
And once for the front-end service,
you create the deployment and automatically
the replica second port created.
And if you want to access via internet,
you can use node port service
or the load balancer service, okay?
So now all these objects are packed under it.
Namespace name, dev.
So which means, whenever you create these objects
you can direct them
to create it directly on the namespace dev.
In the same way, if I want to create QA,
again the same objects can be created in QA.
So now if you see by default
if these gets created in default namespace
with the same names, they cannot get created
in the same default namespace one more time.
But now our namespaces are different.
If for example, this deployment name is backend one, okay?
So now it is in dev it gets created
and in QA it gets created.
In other environments it gets created.
How it can get created
is because of it is completely a isolation boundary
for all these objects using this namespaces.
Now, let's see the namespace manifest
in a declarative manner.
So as usual, our standard template is API version kind,
metadata name and then spec.
So namespace doesn't have any other additional information.
We really don't need to have any spec there.
So you'll have API version is V1,
kind is namespace and metadata inside that name,
I'm giving my namespace name as dev3 here, okay?
And if you want to do it in imperative way,
again it is going to be very, very simple
which is kubectl, create namespace, dev1, that's all.
So this is a very high level introduction
about the namespaces.
So, in our next lecture we'll go ahead
and then create applications in dev1, dev2 namespaces,
and then understand it better.
And then get our hands on with these namespaces.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.